Nmap: TCP SYN Scan (#1348)
Codecademy/docs: content/cybersecurity/concepts/nmap/terms/tcp-syn-scan/tcp-syn-scan.md

---
Title: 'TCP SYN Scan'
Description: 'Performs a scan that can indicate open, filtered, and closed port states with a reduced risk of detection, since it never completes a full TCP connection.'
Subjects:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cybersecurity'
Tags:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cybersecurity'
  - 'Ethical Hacking'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-cybersecurity'
  - 'introduction-to-ethical-hacking'
  - 'paths/scan-systems-with-nmap'
---

A **TCP SYN scan** runs by default when running Nmap as the root user or Administrator. It is the most popular scan option according to [Nmap.org](https://nmap.org/book/synscan.html). Quick and efficient, this scan can indicate open, filtered, and closed port states. It is requested by passing the `-sS` option to Nmap, but when running as the root user or Administrator, `-sS` is usually omitted. Also known as the half-open scan, it never completes the full TCP connection, so it's less likely to be blocked by firewalls.

## Syntax

> Root privileges are required to perform a TCP SYN scan and the target can be any system with an established network connection. The following command performs a scan on `<target>` after entering the user password when prompted:

Reviewer: I'm wondering if this is a fact that we need root privileges. It looks like it's more so a matter of having permissions to send/receive raw-packets (see https://nmap.org/book/synscan.html).

Author: You are right, it is all about raw-packets. But then you need root privileges to send/receive them.

Reviewer: I see! In that case, can we take the second sentence

> It is requested by passing the `-sS` option to Nmap, but when running as the root user or Administrator, `-sS` is usually omitted. Also known as the half-open scan, it never completes the full TCP connection, so it's less likely to be blocked by firewalls.

and move it to the syntax section you think it best fits? Maybe we can replace the note below with that information somewhat worded differently and referencing the pseudo block.

Author: @yangc95 I made the changes as you suggested. Please, check if it's okay.

---
Title: 'TCP SYN Scan'

> Description: 'Performs a scan quickly, efficientily and stealthly. The most popular scan option'

Reviewer: Can we rephrase here? The most popular scan option depends on a user's specific needs so I think we can remove the second sentence. In addition, can we include in the description what it scans and its purpose?

Author: I thought about changing the description to this:

Performs a scan that can indicate open, filtered and closed port states with a reduced risk of detection, since it never completes a full TCP connection

What do you think?

Subjects:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cybersecurity'
Tags:
  - 'Networking'
  - 'Cybersecurity'
  - 'Ethical Hacking'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-cybersecurity'
  - 'introduction-to-ethical-hacking'
  - 'paths/scan-systems-with-nmap'
---

> A **TCP SYN scan** is the default and most popular scan option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **TCP SYN scan** run by default when running Nmap as root or Administrator. It is the most popular scan option.
```

Quick and efficient, this scan can indicate open, filtered and closed port states.
It is requested by passing the -sS option to Nmap, but when running as root or Administrator, -sS is usually omitted.

> TCP SYN Scan is also stealthy because it never completes the full TCP connection, so is less likely to be blocked by firewalls.

Reviewer: Can we place these on the same lines so they appear as a paragraph? In addition, let's wrap any shell snippets like `-sS` in backticks.

## Syntax

To perform a TCP SYN scan on `<target>`, root privileges are required.

> Type the following command and entry user password when prompted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Type the following command and enter user password when prompted:
```

> Type the following command and enter user password when prompted:

Reviewer: Can we move these to the same line? In addition, let's change the wording here to be informative rather than directing a user to do something and include what `<target>` stands for.

Author: ```suggestion
Root privileges are required to perform a TCP SYN scan. The following command performs a scan on `<target>` after entering the user password when prompted:
```

Could the target description be included on the **Note** below @yangc95 ?

```pseudo
sudo nmap -sS <target>
```

> > `sudo` stands for *superuser do* and grants root or Administrator access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** `sudo` stands for *superuser do* and grants root or Administrator access
```

> > **Note:** `sudo` stands for _superuser do_ and grants root or Administrator access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** `sudo` stands for "superuser do" and grants root or Administrator access.
```

## Example

> To execute a TCP SYN scan on the target [scanme.nmap.org](http://scanme.nmap.org/), use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below executes a TCP SYN scan on the target, [scanme.nmap.org](http://scanme.nmap.org/):
```

```shell
$ sudo nmap -sS scanme.nmap.org
```

> > **Warning:** Explicity permission from domain target owner must be granted in order to scan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Explicit permission from domain target owner must be granted in order to scan.
```

> [Scanme.Nmap.Org](http://scanme.nmap.org/) is a service provided by the [Nmap Security Scanner Project](https://nmap.org) for test purposes.

> The output of the previous command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above will output:
```
